[Music]
you
hello I'm the winter chef
I teach psychology at Indian Institute
of Technology Gatti one of the subjects
in psychology that I teach here is
cognitive psychology and so I will be
teaching you this course this course on
cognitive psychology will be covered
through eight modules we'll start with
introduction to the history of
psychology cognitive psychology then
moving on to the methods of studying
cognitive psychology we will deal with
perception the basic process of taking
in information then moving to attention
the filter or the barrier which which
lets information gets encoded from there
we will move into how whatever
information has been perceived or taken
in into our system how that is stored as
memories further on we'll look into what
are memories what are the type of
memories which are there how many
processes operate things like how
processes of encoding and retrieval
really work and what is the way in which
information is organized in in memory
once you are done with memory we'll move
into something called thinking which is
a higher order cognitive processes and
which draws on from memory now thinking
is a process which will lead on to
something called this isn't making
another important proper process in
cognition which is central to the idea
of how people actually make decisions in
real life or how people decide or make
choices in real life
we will also be venturing into a little
bit into something called language which
is how people
you signs and symbols to communicate
ideas between them because communication
of ideas or whatever one thinks whatever
cognition ones have sharing that
cognition with other people is also
central to the idea of psychology so
let's then move quickly into a brief
history of cognitive psychology
psychology developed from philosophy it
came out of philosophy and philosophers
we're the people who actually first
proposed how knowledge is stored how
knowledge is dealt and how knowledge is
acquired and so they led to the
development of the science which is
psychology and so before moving on to
the history of cognitive psychology
let's look at a brief history of the
philosophically inputs to cognitive
psychology so one of the brief inputs of
philosophy or one of the brief debates
of philosophy which led to the science
of development of cognitive psychology
was the debate on something called
nativism and empiricism what is this
debate empiricism explains that
knowledge the idea of knowledge or the
idea of how knowledge gets stored it
comes from individuals experiences so
individual so their own experience to
their own interaction with people around
them with society around them or through
memories are true or other kind of
experiencing systems generate knowledge
whereas the nativist believed that the
rule of heredity the role of biology or
the role of constitutional factors are
responsible for the generation of
knowledge so what was the debate all
about on the empresa side we have people
Aries total and people like John Locke
now John Locke for one who was an
English philosopher and from 1632 to
1704 he talked about knowledge or the
basic of cognitive psychology in terms
of contents of the mind so what is the
content of mind and he said that mine
compose of thoughts it comprises of
thoughts and these thoughts are mental
images our series of mental images which
are associated together and they are
what mind is all about or knowledge is
all about also John Locke proposed the
idea that people at the time of birth ba
are born with a blank state of mind so
there's nothing written in the mind
itself and this debate that this blank
state or this idea that is Bank State
with experience or true experience get
written up and that makes knowledge or
that develops knowledge or cognitions
similarly Aristotle had a similar
viewpoint where he believed that
personal experiences of people is the
reason how this knowledge develops on
the other hand people like Plato or
people starting with Plato other people
like Rene Descartes they believed that
knowledge actually comes from heredity
or it comes from the composition or
biology and so they basically are the
descendants or they basically progress
from Darwin's point of view they believe
that knowledge is inbuilt or it comes as
an inbuilt mechanism and the fact that
this inbuilt mechanism is as the reason
for knowledge specific to cognitive
psychology Rene Descartes a who was a
French philosopher he gave this idea of
my
then body Plato believed that memory is
the first use of Plato where that
memories were actually writings which
were on a wax tablet and he believed
that this mind that people have is
actually a wax tablet and the writings
on this tablet is what our memories and
so what he goes ahead and says is that
these memories the way these memories
are written the way these writings are
the wax tablet the strength of these
writings actually explain or actually
tell you how strong or weak a memory is
also the content of this what is written
on this Rex tablet will tell you about
the content of memories the idea of John
Locke that this mental images the series
of mental images are actually what are
the contents of mind was contested by
someone called George Baker birthday now
what is George Burkley say he contested
the idea that thought processes or
contents of the mind cannot be mental
images which are associated together the
reasoning that he gave to this was that
abstract ideas like judgment or like
truth this cannot be conceptualized as
mental images as they cannot lead to
this idea of the mental images and so
these were some of the some of the basic
philosophically passions of
philosophical view points of what
psychology in general and cognitive
psychology in special or in in
particular are actually comprised of
should comprise all with the coming of
someone con William weren't in the Year
1879 the first scientific school of
psychology developed William bond
developed this school at a place in
Leipzig in Germany and with his school
the first structural school of
psychology came into being the basic
things or the basic ideas that William
actually went ahead and studied where
the nature of consciousness what is
consciousness in the nature of
consciousness now consciousness as such
has been one of the basic materials or
one of the basic inputs which are the
which are the subject matter of
cognitive psychology so what William
wind was trying to do as a scientist as
a scientific school of psychology was
studying what consciousness is all about
for the first time William Volt was able
to explain psychology with a scientific
viewpoint now what was the scientific
viewpoint and what was a limb would
actually trying to do we lived won't
believe that any psychological process
can actually be broken down into sub
processes now this idea of breaking a
mental process into his basic process is
actually a hangover which comes from the
physical sciences and since William
wound came from the basic sciences this
breaking of the mental process into sub
processes well actually hangover which
he had and what did he believe
no William volt basically approached or
described consciousness as to it a
two-part system one he said that cons
describing a consciousness will require
two things characterizing the basic
sensations which is what are the
sensations which characterize the mental
process things like the heat the color
the texture of the of the particular
sensation and also characterizing the
feeling what is the feeling associated
with now as you can see in this
particular slide what William won't
would want is to study mental processes
or mental ideas using the basic process
of hard sciences like chemistry and
physics on this slide you can see that
there is a structure of a chemical or
organic chemical compound and as you can
see this organic chemical compound is
basically composed of several parts and
this chemical component itself can be
described by the parts of our elements
which comprises it what William want was
attempting to do is to study the idea of
seeing this Apple the consciousness of
staying this Apple and break it into
processes really into basic processes of
how people see this Apple as you can see
on the right hand side there's an apple
and there is a process to it now the
variability the basic idea of Apple what
William Kuhn said is comprised of these
five or six ideas what is the idea for
example it can be described the Apple
can be described in color of in in terms
of its color in terms of its taste in
terms of its shape in terms of its shine
or in terms of how you feel after eating
it and that is what I was talking about
so what William will did was the idea or
the consciousness or the concept of
Apple the mental image of Apple the
mental construct of Apple he described
can be described over can be broken down
into its physical features which is the
shape color texture and things like that
and the feeling that we have after
eating an apple or how do we feel after
it being eating a particular Apple and
the second thing is he also wanted they
also included so one thing was
characterizing the feeling and the basic
sensations and the second part of this
was to deal with the rules through which
these sensations were combined together
what are the rules which through which
we combine the perceptions the idea of
an apple and the feeling of an apple and
so he related that this could be done
through perception where in perception
we
actually not only see the color shape
and size we combined them together to
see a whole Apple so in all what William
will was trying to do is trying to
explain mental processes in terms of the
sensations or the the sensation and
feelings and also how these sensations
and feelings are combined together to
give you the actual construct or the
actual image of an Apple this notion of
taking a mental image or taking a mental
feeling and breaking it into its part
this led to two major things one he
showed that mental activity mental
images can be broken down into basic
operations so when I see something or
when I feel something the feeling of a
particular sunrise or sunset can be
broken down into its physical part which
is the heat that I feel or the coal that
I feel or the kind of feeling that I
feel and also the basic factors the
basic temperature the basic light
intensity which the Sun gives off a
sunset I'd combine these two two things
together and then I get this mental
activity or the mental feeling of what a
sunset is and this is the second thing
that William wind was able to do was to
develop an objective method of studying
mental activity up till now most
philosophers are talking about mental
activity as a process as icing on a
tablet or it could be in terms of
consciousness but none of these things
could actually be studied objectively
could actually be studied or could
actually be measured as changes but what
William don't want did was take a mental
activity was to take from this mental
activity and divide it into its parts
which can be measured and which can
which are observable in nature so this
is the this is the contribution of
William bolt
the problem with what William Boone
suggested was that mental images does
not gain guarantee a mental activity and
so the study of mental images in no way
will guarantee the study of mental
activity for example let's say I give
you different weights and ask you to
compare two weights one is a lighter or
whether one is lighter than the other or
when one is heavier than the other it's
an easy task and most people will be
able to do it but the question is do
people actually realize that they're
doing this comparison or are people able
to basically Center on those mental
activities which are required for doing
these comparisons doing this comparisons
of mental weight and the answer to this
is no we do not have any idea of what is
the mental activity which is going on
what is the actual mental activity is
going on when comparing this face
obviously we will get answers on
superficial terms from people of whether
two weights are lighter or harder but
what is the actual mental activity which
is acquire which is required for doing
this kind of calculation is not possible
let's take another example suppose I
asked you to describe the ear of a cat
what is the ear of a cat look like most
people will be able to do that but when
I ask you this question that when I said
or when I asked you what does the ear of
a cat look like did you actually bring
forth an image of the cat in your mind
for answering this question not many
people will be able to answer it
truthfully saying that they do actually
bring up the
idea or the image of a cat why is that
one reason is because we do predictions
and in terms of predictions we know how
a year looks like and so how the cat's
ear would look like it comes from
semantic knowledge and we really do not
need to imagine a cat and then look at
its head and then look at it here in
terms of mental activities to actually
come up with the idea of a ear of a cat
or ascribed in the year texture or shape
of a cat's ear so these are some of the
problems with his theory or with his
structuralism which was a solution to
that was attempted through something
called a new school which was
functionalism so the school of
functionalism was started by someone
called William James and so William
James was off the idea that the nature
of mental activity is not the only
solution to studying cognition but
rather the functions of spatial specific
mental activities are what require or
are what is required what do I mean by
this the functionalist perspective
suggests that the components of a mental
activity are not important but how does
that mental activity actually functions
or actually is described in a process is
what is of interest for example let's
assume that we go to a lecture now in a
lecture for some people writing a
lecture down making no thought of a
lecture down works that is how they
learn and for some other people
listening to a lecture when a lecture is
being delivered is what is the key is
what is the key to to to understanding
of the contents of the lecture now the
people for whom listening a lecture or
hearing a lecture is the key to them for
them to learn what these people can do
is find out what aspects of listening in
a lecture not writing legend down
actually helps them in understanding the
subject and let's suppose that they find
out or the reasons why they they
subscribe to listening a lecture is
because when they go into a lecture a
listen to a lecture they get a chance to
ask questions or they get a chance to
see visual aids and learn things these
might be the reasons why listening to a
lecture is beneficial what they could do
is in future if they subscribe to a
lecture if they want to attend the
lecture what they can do is basically
look at those lectures which gives you
opportunity to ask questions they can
look at teachers which give you
opportunities to ask more number of
questions and then select that
particular lecture and learn from it
so basically the functionalist approach
says that it is not the nature of mental
activity that is important what is
important is how the function of this is
when this nature activity actually takes
place or when this when this nature
activities are actually taking place in
in the real sense how does this really
go ahead and an explained mental process
so mental process is not just components
of mental images it is it is in terms of
how this mental process or how this the
the acting out of this mental process
actually lets you gain knowledge
functionalism derives a lot from someone
called Charles Darwin who proposed that
evolution is the reason or the idea
behind
gaining of knowledge so basically there
is the difference between functionalism
and structuralism in terms of explaining
this recovery psychology is that
structuralism basically thought of
mental processes thoughts of mental
images or prescribed the idea that
mental images are there and these mental
images can be broken down and then can
be studied and that is how cognition or
knowledge is is generated
whereas functionalism talks about are
not these mental processes but rather
how this mental process operates the
operation of these mental processes is
actually the way how people generate
knowledge a third school which led or a
third school which led to the formation
of cognitive psychology was the get
start school now this is a very simple
school and this school proposed two
rules one that the whole is always more
than the sum of its part
what does it really mean it subscribes
to the idea that if we see something as
a whole and if we see a part the same
thing as parts they may not give us the
combined experience think of it in terms
of a movie when we go to a movie we not
only see the pictures but we also see
the sounds the which is coming from the
pictures the whole movie experiences
combined together to give you the idea
of what a movie is well as you take take
the movie apart the picture the music
the sound the other effects everything
taken apart from it and then show you
show them one by one to you will you
have the same experience no you will
have entirely different experience take
another example the idea of a song no
song composed of lyrics it composes of
music which is that it composes of
special effects and so many other things
into it now if I take this apart if I
first
make you hear the lyrics and later on
add-on or make you hear the instruments
which play with it and later on come out
show you or make make you hear the basic
effects or are the basic special effects
will you have the same experience as
when these combined together to form the
song no they're different and that is
what cognitive psychology or Gestalt
psychology proposes are cognitive
psychology they say that the idea of
studying cognition is that the greatest
psychology is that the experience that
you get from studying a whole process is
different from breaking the process
apart and so this school was in direct
opposition to William Boone school who
proposed structuralism where they said
that the mental activity any mental
activity for that matter can be broken
down it's true spot studied and how
knowledge is gained her knowledge
progresses can be understood another
school which adds up or which basically
goes ahead and explains some of the
basic ideas about cognitive psychology
or someone one of the basic ideas for a
psychology is behaviorism now
behaviorism Vicious was a school which
strictly proposed the idea that there is
a stimulus and there is a response and
each stimulus is bound to a particular
kind of a response so stimuluses leads
to response as the moon are made the
optimal response is always adapted as
the effect of a stimulus what we've
reasoned did was it didn't subscribe to
the idea of hidden mental states raising
behaviorism said since we are not able
to understand the mind here since we are
not able to understand what is inside
somebody's head so let's look at what is
observable and so what are the things
one of the main propositions of
behaviorism was that let's look at what
is observable so if there is a stable
and it creates a response which can be
observed and this response could lead to
a consequence this is what it should be
studied so study a stimulus study a
response and study a consequence to the
response and this is what should be the
subject matter of cognitive psychology
cognitive psychologists should not waste
its time on what are the mental
processes what are the mental images
what is inside somebody's mind which and
how they direct the notions of knowledge
gathering Clark Holly one of the
behaviorist he proposed that although
mental events cannot be studied through
behaviorism but their existence can be
deduced by their effect on behavior and
so what he says is that although things
like motivation which is basically
internal behavior or is an internal even
they it cannot be studied but what can
be done is that its effect of motivation
can be studied on behavior can be
studied can be studied through what
people do when they are motivated so if
somebody is motivated he will produce
most optimal responses and based on that
his efforts on doing that particular job
or doing that particular act will
increase and that is why this increase
in the response when he gets rewarded by
doing that response basically shows the
presence of motivation Skinner who was
another behaviorist he went so far ahead
and said that look there are thing
called internal events there is nothing
called mental crosses and so the basic
idea or the basic subject matter of
cognitive psychology should be stimulus
response and consequences and studying
the relationship with what stimulus
leads to what response and optimizing
understanding what is the optimal
response to a particular stimulus and
then studying how these responses are
strengths
or weaken and that basically happens
through studying of consequences
the problem with behaviorist are the
problem why behaviorists were not
successful in understanding cognition or
in developing cognitive psychology was
that they couldn't go ahead and explain
some of the most interesting behaviors
or the existence are some of the most
interesting behaviors for example the
idea of language or how 3d perception
and things like language or depth
perception initiation people this led to
the fall of behaviorism as a proponent
or as a school which explains you what
the subject matter of cognitive
psychology is or what cognitive
psychology is all about since most of
these schools were trying to understand
what should we the subject matter of
cognitive psychology or what convey
psychology is all about none of the
schools could actually come up with a
definitive answer of what is the true
subject-matter of cognition behaviorism
to some extent did give some very good
inputs for developing of a theory of
cognition but they to fail in some ways
because they were not looking at
external events what behaviorism
contributed was that they developed some
of the most rigorous idea or
experimental techniques of studying
cognition also they for the first time
went ahead and studied animal cognition
and they said that cutting the way
animals behave could lead to
understanding how people behave or how
people gathered knowledge or how
information or how cognition really
works
so they although didn't provide
with enough matter to the development of
cognitive psychology but they did
provide enough impetus to the
development of a new school of how
knowledge is gathered and what is mental
activity questions like these a new
school came in and they started
explaining what is the subject matter of
the mind and how is knowledge gathered
and this school was called the cognitive
school or the cognitive revolution now
up till this point of time we have been
dealing with psychology we have been
doing with experiments in psychology we
are we dealing with people who have
worked in psychology and they have been
giving several definitions of what
psychology is what it should do what
cognitive psychology should do what
should be subject matter of psychology
psychology how knowledge is gained and
those kind of things but the new school
that came in and explained what is
cognitive psychology or what is the
basic way in which mental events or
mental processes a function was the
cognitive school this school started
with the development of the first
computers and this school came up or the
school was proposed or came out from the
ideas of people like Herbert Simon Alan
Newell and norm Chomsky for the first
time with the development of computers
psychologists got an opportunity to
model the working of the human mind in
terms of sets in terms of items which
taken information and process it and to
understand how thought processes are how
human thinking or mental processes are
actually taken care of by the mind now
the computer gave
the cognitivist an ideal medium to study
the internal mechanism of how
information knowledge is grasped is
processed and is developed and is used
so as I said before people like Herman's
Herbert Simon and nuwell who give the
idea of computers gave the idea of
computer processing systems provided a
chance for the development of the field
of cognitive psychology not the basic to
understanding cognitive psychology is
studying the mind right up till now we
have been looking at schools or we have
been looking at viewpoints from various
schools of psychology and what do you
think about or how they affected the
development of cognitive psychology is a
field from now on we will be looking at
what is the subject matter of cognitive
psychology and how it should be studied
what are the processes and things like
that so one of the things that led or
that is school to understanding
cognitive psychology or human cognition
is understanding the working of the
human mind now with the development of
computers or the cognitive revolution
there was a chance to compare human mind
working with the working of the
computers but the problem was the
working of the mental activities which
led to the working of the mind of how
mind generated knowledge or how mine
generated any activity and comparing
that to a computer program is not a
correct solution the reason is because
the analog of mental activities as
computer programs are wrong is because
the mind and/or the brain and the
computers are made up of in
two different kind of things or two
different kind of elements whereas the
brain is made up of neurons and
biological structures the computers are
made up of hardware electronic circuits
and several other things which are not
comparable on any dimension also the
mind the analogy which says that the
minds and computers are same it proposes
that the mind is the software which runs
on the hardware which is the brain no as
I said the comparison of the mind and
brain to an operating system and the
computer is not correct what are the
reasons that I gave is because they are
made up of different different kind of
elements whereas the brain is made up of
neurons and neural structures and
biologic based materials the computers
on the other hand are made up of
electrical circuits also if you look at
the mind and the brain the brain the
mind works on top of the brain right
which means that the operating system of
the brain and the brain itself are one
and the same thing or is a spot off of
the same structure whereas computers
don't have this specificity the idea
here is that computer programs can be
run on different kind of computers if I
have an operating system no matter what
computer I have no matter what kind of
hardware that I have I can run this
operating system on it and so the
hardware the operating system the mind
in terms of a computer an analog II can
run on different different hardware's
whereas the mind that a person has the
brain which generates the mind this
cannot be transported to other person up
till now this is not possible where I
can take in somebody's mind and
and Transplant it to somebody else's
hardware brain and make these people
similar now these are some of the this
is actually one of the most periodical
questions or I would say taught
experiments in philosophy where it's
described that if I take the mind the
brain of someone a part of brain or
someone and implant it to someone else
who who was having a malfunction brain
as brains can can function half brains
can function on their own will they be
the same person now that's that's a
thought experiment in philosophy and so
this is the question here so if I take
your mind and put this mind let's let's
assume that I can take your mind and put
this on somebody else's hardware the
brain will two of you function similarly
because the brain is more or less
similar in most people and so it doesn't
but on the other hand in terms of
computers what really happens is that if
I take an OS operating system and I take
it to any hardware it keeps on
functioning or it keeps on working in
the same way also some software programs
are so basic that at times we take these
software programs and convert them into
some kind of hardware some kind of
hardware programs for example the basic
IC chips which allows certain currents
or certain signals certain kind of gates
which are there in electronics
engineering so at times simple programs
computer programs can we actually
convert it into a chip and this chip can
be later on used for use as in hardware
but basic human programs or basic human
processes cannot be converted into a
part of the brain and can be shifted so
that's what this
says that sometimes deputy programs can
be cut into convert into electrical
circuits whereas for humans is not
possible so then what is the how do we
differ between the brain in the computer
or the brain and the mind this can be
understood in terms of the various
levels of analysis what does this really
mean
levels of analysis actually means the
point from where you are seeing
something the point from where you are
analyzing a particular feature for
example in a computer program the two
levels of analysis can be in terms of
the basic electrical current the basic
circuits that the brain has and the
physics of the computer so one level of
analysis will be how current flows
through several hardware's in a computer
and how these leads to the functioning
of the computer on us
second level on another level of
analysis computers can also be
understood in terms of what various
programs do how these various programs
go ahead what kind of processes the dual
that they have what kind of functions
that they do and how they go ahead and
and actually create an output from the
input given so what level is the
physical level in in terms of computers
understanding levels of analysis could
be understanding computers in terms of
the physics of it in terms of the in
terms of the electrical circuits that it
has or in terms of the programs that run
on it and that describe the computer
know for understand this with a more
easy example let's say we are looking at
a building so what I'm trying to tell
you is what are different levels of
analysis so let's think of a building
one level of analysis of a building
would be the architecture would be the
way the building is constructed the
design of the building how it is how it
looks what kind of rooms
and so on and so forth so this is a
high-level analysis a lower level of
analysis or another level of analysis of
this building could be in terms or the
bricks that is used to make this
building the cement that is used the
steel rods which are used and so in
terms of the basic components we take of
the make up the building although both
levels of analysis are talking about the
same building but they have different
different viewpoints of it and so this
building can be explained with the
analysis with the level of the
architecture architecture input or it
could be understood in terms of the
level of the basic building materials so
then this is how the distinction of the
brain and the mind can be that through
different levels of analysis what this
would mean is that when we are looking
at any mental process we can look at a
mental process from both a functional
view as well as a structural view let's
look at emotions what is the functional
view of an emotion the functional view
of an emotion is it's an arousal state
it's a state of arousal which quickly
clients and gets back to normal and
through which people experience feelings
this is more of functional but what is
the structural view of looking at an
emotion the structural view of an
emotion could be expressed in terms of
the brain regions which led to the
emotion and probably the areas which are
related to amygdala or areas near to it
which leads to generation of an emotion
so the same emotion that I'm talking
about the same emotion that people have
can we express both on a functional
level in terms of what people feel and
also in terms of the structural level of
which
the brain lead to the development of
this particular feeling or with this
particular emotion another interesting
thing or another input matter subject
matter of cognitive psychology our
mental representation what a mental
representation whenever we think about
something maybe it could be a job it
could be thinking about a friend a
particular vacation whenever you think
about this a lot of mental activities
takes place in the brain and so these
mental activities actually excess or
actually use something called mental
representations so generally what is a
mental representation a mental
representation is basically a physical
state that conveys information
specifying an object event or category
or its characteristics in terms of paper
and pen a mental representation would be
the ink which writes a particular letter
the way the particular letter is written
in terms of the brain it could be the
neural connections which leads to a
particular kind of network connection a
particular kind of mental state disease
generated or in terms of computers it
could be a particular kind of magnetic
field so mental representation basically
is a notion is a represent a is the way
something is stored each mental
representation or most mental
representations have two things in
common one is a form of the mental
representation and the second is the
content of a mental representation what
is the form of a mental representation
the form of a mental representation
states the way a particular message is
conveyed the format in which it is
conveyed the way in which it is encode
and the content of a mental
representation is basically the meaning
the knowledge
the idea which is being conveyed to that
representation
so basically mental representation is
think of it is a unit of knowledge and
this unit of knowledge has a form which
is in which format it has been encoded
so it could be encoded in a visual
format it could be encoded in a auditory
format it could be encoded in some other
format a haptic format and the content
is what is the data bytes into it what
is the knowledge into it so mostly
representations are like that let's
understand what mental representations
are and when I say that a mental
representation is a unit of knowledge
and it can it has a form and a
particular kind of a form and a
particular kind of content let me
explain this a little bit more for
example I want to convey to you the
following sentence the ball is on the
box this sentence means or this idea
means that there is something on
something a subject an object and a
relation between a subject an object or
it represents an idea now this idea has
two parts one is what is second is where
and the third is on what so the bodies
of the Box the idea of a ball being in a
box can be conveyed through two kinds of
representations we can use a
propositional representation and we can
use a quasi pictorial representation
what is the meaning of that
prepositional response
representations will tell you two ideas
and how are these ideas related together
whereas a quasi pictorial representation
is going to tell you show you a picture
of how these ideas are related together
so when I look at the proposition of
representation looking into it
I have the ball which is on the box
right so ball and box are two ideas or
two representations which are connected
by a representation on which basically
means that something on something and in
this case there is a ball which is a
circular in shape and which is on top of
a box which may be a rectangular in
shape
so then what this representation
proportionally presentation explains is
a relationship first of all so the ball
is in the box if I represent it through
prepositions it could be in terms it
could it could have in terms of
proportional disposition it should have
a relation how the two ideas are
connected together that undulation here
is on second and argument what
representations or what ideas are
connected I have a connector on which is
connecting two ideas but what are the
ideas which is being connected the ball
in the box what is the syntax of
connecting now if I just write on ball
box it is not going to make any meaning
there is a syntax to it a syntax a is
that one ball a ball it could be
anything on which is the connector or
box on one thing and the then the
connector is so this ball is basically
on the box
lift up when I am saying that I am
talking about the particular ball the
particular box then the abstract what is
the abstract the ball in the box the
shapes of the balls in the box then the
propositional representation it doesn't
happen in a special media in a special
media in the reason that it doesn't have
a pin in space it doesn't explain you in
space how these are related so in space
you will you will generate the idea in
your head that there is a ball and there
is a box and the ball is on the box but
you cannot see the picture of the ball
on the box although you will it will
generate the same idea of the ball being
on the box and are very related to
replace represent objects it can be are
very
when I use a quasi pictorial
representation for explaining the same
idea the ball is in the box
I can draw a ball which is spherical in
shape and a box now you have to be very
specific I cannot draw a triangular ball
neither can I draw cubical box hecta
bundle box obviously it's allowed but
then most box will have rectangular or
square ish surface and so I have to be
very strictly to that also the
preposition of on suggest that the
spherical shape has to be on top of the
shape of the box and so in this case
there is no distinct relation there is
no distinct arguments no clear syntax no
concrete ideas but then what happens is
it happens this can be expressed in a
spatial medium what does these mean what
is the meaning of this the meaning of
this is mental representations or mental
ideas can not only be expressed in terms
of words or in terms of prepositions in
terms of ideas and connector connectors
connecting these ideas but it will also
be expressed in terms of just images and
so images are one way of conveying an
idea let's take another example ROM is
running if I say the sentence ROM is
running the two ways of showing it I can
use running which is a verb or I can and
then I can use ROM which is the noun and
then show the relation between that
running is done by ground this is a
propositional so making the preposition
or I can draw somebody running doing the
act of running or make a cartoon of it
and running and then I can show that ROM
is running by that / - really
both these representations both these
formats will actually convey the same
meaning so coming back to the idea that
mental representations have a particular
format and a particular idea or a
particular content
as you can see both these wings of
representations have a format the first
one has a propositional format and the
second one has the quasi
representational format which is a
special format of encoding ideas what is
the content the content of the first is
there is a an object a which is on top
of object B similarly with the pictorial
representations also the same idea or
the same information is being conveyed
that a is on top of B so then these
mental representations that we have can
actually or how do these mental
representations work the working of
these mental representations takes place
through a process a processing system
and algorithm so once we see something
once we form a mental representation
this mental representation is taken by
the mind and this then this mind makes
meaning out of it to using a process or
processing system and an algorithm what
does the process do the process takes in
basic information and produce a specific
out of it so the process will look at
the mental representation whether it is
in propositional form or in special form
encode it through up through a system of
cross perception attention that kind of
thing a processing system will compose
of several processes and these several
processes will combine with one another
to give a output to give us the idea
that a is on B or that this is what is
being conveyed so a process is basically
one part of a processing system a
process is basically a format or is is
basically a process through which
something is some information is taken
and this information is transformed into
specific type of output this specific
output is later on combined through or
it's is froth is passed through several
processes and these several processes
generally are comprised in something
called a processing system so for
example going back to the original thing
looking at the quasi representational
description looking at this makes you
understand this knowledge that a ball is
on the box now for this for you to
understand that the ball is on the box
there are several processes responsible
and there is a processing system which
is processing it one process the first
process I would say which is responsible
as attention you have to pay your
attention to this particular image the
special image the process of attention
will take out everything else from the
vicinity of this particular picture and
what it will do is it will only
concentrate your mental concentration
onto this box and and this ball the
process of perception will let you
understand this or encode this in a
visual format and then there will be
process of memory through which what
will happen is there will be a
comparison of the size of this the shape
of this the relation between this and
then there will be a process of thinking
of this isn't making will not be a
process here but then this is how you
will develop the idea that the ball is
on the table so the processing system
comprises of several processes and these
several processes one after another
gives you the final order an algorithm
is basically a step by step procedure of
how the processing system should
function so any processing system should
function in a particular way in a
particular in in a particular direction
and this algorithms tell you how to
where to start where to go from there
what to expect out of it and then
where to go from there again for example
in the idea of perceiving the ball and
the box the algorithm tells the mind or
the brain to first look at the shapes
pay your attention to the shapes cut out
the or separate the background from the
foreground perceive this in the through
the eyes in the visual format hold it
into working memory let the Central
Executive and episodic before of working
memory talk to long-term memory and make
a comparison of what you are seeing and
based on that generating this output
that this particular figure shows a ball
on the table so this is how the
algorithm says so it starts the
algorithm says that it starts with
attention goes to perception goes to
memory those to this kind of memory
really travels and then make making the
decision of how this ball is on the
table or how the what this particular
picture explains so up till now what we
have seen is what is the history of
cognitive psychology and we've looked at
the schools of area schools which gave
their inputs or which led to the
development of the field of cognitive
psychology and we've also looked at what
is the subject matter of cognitive
psychology we looked at what are mental
representations how they can be encoded
what is the format in which we can
encode and things like that we'll
continue our journey by understanding
why should we study the brain at all if
mind is of what is importance why should
be studying the brain and then following
on following this we'll also look at the
several paradigms of cognitive
psychology or what are the basic bodies
of knowledge of cognitive psychology
thank you
[Music]
you